Deploying KubeVirt (#242)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: web-console/knikubevirt/deplying-kubevirt/deploying-kubevirt.md

# Deploying Kubevirt on OCP using UI

## Pre-Installation

![BasSeaching for HCO on the OperatorHub](img/1-01.png)

> On the OperatorHub, get a match for searching “KubeVirt HyperConverged/CNV/virt/virtualization…” etc (we currently have only a hit with “Hyperconverged…”)

Author: I've updated the list, let me know if there's any problem with the suggested list, if it's ok that I encluded both upstream and downstream, or if I missed something out.

![Installing Operator](img/1-02.png)

> After viewing details, including a list of the APIs, the user clicks ‘Install’

Author: Oh, I did forget to place them here.
But looking at it again I don't think that reviewing the list of APIs on this Operator summary:
- We do install them all anyway, the user doesn't have a say, it's all or no installation.
- Because of that, I think that viewing the APIs, anywhere on the installation process, is a cognitive distraction
- We abstract them from the user on the installation. The user does actually see them via the CR list on the second step of the wizard, but the APIs are not the subject there, just a means to display the CR list and customize them.

WDYT?

> After viewing details, including a list of the APIs, the user clicks ‘Install’

Reviewer: Yeah I'd agree we probably don't need to take the space to show them again here!

## Installation

### General

![General step - default](img/2-00.png)
The subscription channel has only one option, therefore it is disabled, but visible in order for the user to know which channel this operator exist on.
The user toggles to “A specific project” on the project field

![General step - next step](img/2-01.png)
The user leaves the rest to default and goes to the next step

### Custom resources

![CR step - default](img/2-10.png)
This screen offers the user a way to create Custom resources as a part of the Operator installation by default.

> The user uncheck the “Create custom resource instances” checkbox

Author: We need all of them installed in order for the Kubevirt to be functional.
I suspect that this is not the case for all operators. If it is not the same, then I would suggest going with my first suggestion which is displaying a CR list with a checkbox for each, and one checkbox at the top to control them all.

> The user uncheck the “Create custom resource instances” checkbox

Reviewer: I think that makes sense as a starting point. Playing with it today it's super hard to know what I need so I like the idea of maybe a warning if they unselect one.

> ![CR step - uncheck "Create CR instances"](img/2-11.png)

Reviewer 2: +1 this seems like a warning message

The supporting text below the checkbox changes to alert, notifying the user that the HCO will not be functional until instances will be created and that the user can do it manually later on.
The user decides to check the box again.

![CR step - re-check "Create CR instances"](img/2-12.png)
The user clicks the ‘Edit Yaml’ button to make some modifications to the first CR.

> ![CR step - editing YAML](img/2-13.png)

Author: Agree

The user modifies the YAML and clicks “Save” to return to the screen.

> ![CR step - YAML edited](img/2-14.png)

Reviewer 2: Seems like this should be consistent with the type of language used in the create VM workflow – "Install operator" or something like that would make sense to me.

Author: I talked with @matthewcarleton about this topic and seems like we should go with just "Install" as we have other 'Apply' buttons like 'Subscribe'.
I'll sync @yfrimanm on this topic

> ![CR step - YAML edited](img/2-14.png)

Author: Changed it, WDYT?

> ![CR step - YAML edited](img/2-14.png)

Reviewer: I like it much better! Thanks :)

The link to edit the YAML changes to indicate that a change has occurred and the user can reset that change (‘Reset’ button available within the modal). 

> The user clicks the install button.

Reviewer: The wireframe shows "Next" rather than "Install". Should either this text or the wireframe be updated?

### "Success" screen

> ![Operator installed](img/2-20.png)

Reviewer: Should we drop the clicking pointer from this wireframe?

> ![Operator installed](img/2-20.png)

Reviewer 2: This is cool. For operators that add multiple things to the UI, would or should this be a multi-step process / tour (like showing the additional things on the dashboard)?

Author: A full tour, visiting the sites and all, will probably be the "heaviest" solution. As far as I know, it becomes less popular too, since it is really aggressive.
I would explore the following:

- A modal that displays what's new, displaying one subject at a time, and a 'Back/Next/Dismiss' buttons. It is still a blocker but currently considered to be more pleasant.
- An indication, like in this page which is not a blocker, for every time the user Vitis a page with something 'New' he hasn't seen so far. This is far less aggressive.
- Just specify all the stuff available to the user in this "Success" page

There is a “Success” phase, letting the user know that she accomplished something and she should be happy.
Also including a popover with a badge to alert the user that a new item appeared on the side menu.
It will be available until the user enters ‘Virtual machines’ for the first time.

> This screen suggests to the user the following options: To create VM or to go to the operator page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This screen suggests to the user the following options: To view the list of Virtual Machines or to go to the operator details page
```
